# Typingspeed
Files that we used in our project are as follows:
•	Bgimg.jpg : The background image used in the project.
•	ts.jpg : This is an image for the reset button.
•	speed.jpg : This is displayed while starting the game.
•	Writings.txt : This is a text file that contains a list of sentences and are separated by a new line.
•	Speed typing : The main program file that contains all the code.

This Python project idea, we are going to build an exciting project through which you can check and even improve your typing speed.For a graphical user interface, we are going to use the pygame library which is used for working with graphics.
The project in Python requires you to have basic knowledge of python and pygame library. For this project based on Python, we are using the pygame library. So we need to import the library along with some built-in modules of Python like time and random library.Pygame is a cross platform set of python modules designed for writing video games. It includes computer graphics and sound libraries designed to be used with the python programming language 
Typing Speed testing keep track of your typing speed and improve it with regular practice. This python project is very interesting, simple and best for practice purposes. Typing Speed Testing is a python based system that will check your typing speed and helps to improve it. This can be pretty useful and helpful for those people who are not good at typing, they can perform this test and improve it.

For our project firstly we import the pygame library along with some built-in modules of python like time and random library.
We create the Game class which will have all the functions to start the game, reset the game and other helping functions for calculation. Then we create the constructor for our class where we will initialize all the variables, length and width of window. After that we will initialize the pygame library. Then we will load the images and initialize the screen variable that is very important for drawing the text on the screen.
Then we’ll have a draw_text()  method which is used to draw text on the screen and the arguments it takes are screen, y coordinate of screen to position the text on the screen, font size, font color. We will draw everything on the centre of the screen. After drawing anything, pygame needs us to update the screen.
We’ll also have a get_sentence() method that will return a random sentence from the text file Writings.txt. The whole string is split by a newline character. WE have a show_results() method in which we calculate the typing speed of the user. Time starts when the user clicks on the input box and when the user presses the enter key, time will stop and their difference is calculated in seconds. Then we compare the text input by the user and the displayed text that the user had to input and will get the correct typed characters For accuracy, we use the given formula:
(Correct typed characters / total characters in the sentence) * 100
Then we calculate the words per minute (wpm). Assuming a typical word contains 5 characters , so for wpm, we divide the total characters by 5 and the result is again divided by the time taken by the user in minutes. As we calculated the user’s time taken in seconds, we convert it into minutes by dividing it with 60.Then we will create a reset button at the bottom of the screen. When the user clicks it the game would reset.
The main method of our class is the run() method which handles all the mouse and keyboard events. We call the reset game method in its starting that resets all the variables. Then we run an infinite loop to capture all the mouse and keyboard events. When mouse is clicked we will see its position. If it is on the input box, we start the time and set the active to true. If it is on Reset, it resets the game. When active is true and time has not ended, we look for keyboard events. If user presses any key from the keyboard we update the message to the input box. Backspace will trim the last character input by the user. Enter key will end the typing and will start the calculations and the result will be displayed on the screen.

